Politicians, officials react to Florida school shooting



close video person of interest in custody after florida school shooting police take shooting suspect into custody following incident at marjory stoneman douglas high school in parkland, florida. a former student at a florida high school on wednesday allegedly opened fire on his classmates and teachers, leaving at least 17 people dead, according to the broward county sheriff's office. officials have described the scene at marjory stoneman douglas high school in parkland as an attack that "was designed & executed to maximize loss of life," "absolutely pure evil" and "catastrophic." parkland high school shooting: at least 17 killed, suspect in custody, florida sheriff says president trump tweeted that his "prayers and condolences" are with the families of those affected by the shooting, and said: "no child, teacher or anyone else should ever feel unsafe in an american school." my prayers and condolences to the families of the victims of the terrible florida shooting. no child, teacher or anyone else should ever feel unsafe in an american school.— donald j. trump (@realdonaldtrump) february 14, 2018 trump confirmed he's spoken to florida gov. rick scott, and said the white house is "working closely with law enforcement" regarding the shooting. just spoke to governor rick scott. we are working closely with law enforcement on the terrible florida school shooting.— donald j. trump (@realdonaldtrump) february 14, 2018 politicians, lawmakers, and local officials have responded to the incident. republican florida gov. rick scott tweeted that he's spoken with trump, county officials and the superintendent of broward schools about the reported shooting, and said he'll continue to monitor the situation. i’ve spoken with @browardsheriff scott israel, @browardschools superintendent robert runcie and fdle commissioner rick swearingen regarding stoneman douglas high school. we’ll continue to receive updates from law enforcement.— rick scott (@flgovscott) february 14, 2018 just spoke with @potus about shooting at marjory stoneman douglas high school. my thoughts and prayers are with the students, their families and the entire community. we will continue to receive briefings from law enforcement and issue updates.— rick scott (@flgovscott) february 14, 2018 first lady melania trump said her "heart is heavy" following reports of the shooting. my heart is heavy over the school shooting in florida. keeping all affected in my thoughts & prayers.— melania trump (@flotus) february 14, 2018 rep. frederica wilson, d-fla., tweeted that her "thoughts and prayers are with the victims," and added it's "heartbreaking that these violent incidents continue to take place in schools, a place where our children should feel and be the most safe!" my thoughts and prayers are with the victims of the horrific shooting taking place at marjory stoneman douglas high school. it is heartbreaking that these violent incidents continue to take place in schools, a place where our children should feel and be the most safe!— rep frederica wilson (@repwilson) february 14, 2018 "today is that terrible day you pray never comes," sen. marco rubio, r-fla., tweeted. he said he's spoken with the broward school superintendent and is monitoring the situation. we are monitoring the horrible unfolding situation in broward county, florida with reports of a shooting at a local high school. #sayfie— marco rubio (@marcorubio) february 14, 2018 just spoke to broward school superintendent. today is that terrible day you pray never comes.— marco rubio (@marcorubio) february 14, 2018 democrat ted deutch, who represents broward county in u.s. congress, tweeted that he's on his way "asap" to the scene of the shooting, and noted he's spoken with the broward county superintendent. spoke with broward superintendent runcie. local, state and federal law enforcement agencies all on the ground. governor on his way. on my way asap.— rep. ted deutch (@repteddeutch) february 14, 2018 deutch added that the city of parkland "is an idyllic community," and said marjory stoneman douglas high school is "incredible," with wonderful teachers, staff and students. incredible school in my district - great teachers and staff, involved parents and amazing kids. spoke with the kids there just a few weeks back.— rep. ted deutch (@repteddeutch) february 14, 2018 parkland is an idyllic community. tragedies like this occur everywhere. school shootings occur everywhere. this is horrific. https://t.co/ygr6z5gmgn— rep. ted deutch (@repteddeutch) february 14, 2018 sen. bill nelson, d-fla., told fox news that "there are many deaths" in the school shooting, and tweeted that he's spoken with officials "to ensure they have everything they need." praying for everyone at marjory stoneman douglas high school. just spoke with broward undersheriff to ensure they have everything they need. and just spoke to fbi to make sure all federal resources are being made available to help. will continue to monitor closely.— bill nelson (@senbillnelson) february 14, 2018 canadian prime minister justin trudeau took to twitter to give his condolences, adding that "canadians have you in our hearts." sending my deepest condolences to the parents, families and friends grieving tonight in parkland, florida, and wishing a full recovery to the injured. canadians have you in our hearts.— justin trudeau (@justintrudeau) february 15, 2018 "this isn't right. this isn't normal," rep. jackie speier, d-calif., tweeted. "our schools are becoming the new killing fields." this isn’t right. this isn’t normal. our schools are becoming the new killing fields. how many more grieving families and slain children must we see before congress shatters the moments of silence with meaningful action on common sense gun safety reforms. #floridaschoolshooting— jackie speier (@repspeier) february 15, 2018 nicole darrah covers breaking and trending news for foxnews.com. follow her on twitter @nicoledarrah.



--------------------------------------



