Liz Warren Responds to 'Pocahontas' Insult During Surprise Appearance at American Indian Event



massachusetts sen. elizabeth warren (d) has long failed to overcome the controversy surrounding her supposed native american heritage. during her 2012 senate run, it was revealed that warren once claimed that her family had cherokee blood. she mentioned her heritage to administrators at the university of pennsylvania and harvard, a move her critics charge was intended to improve her chances of employment. yet, politifact found that she had "zero documentary evidence to back it up" those claims about her family tree.  then-candidate donald trump infamously gave warren the name "pocahontas" on the 2016 campaign trail. he repeated the nickname during official white house events. during a surprise appearance at the national congress of american indians wednesday morning, warren directly addressed the mockery.  “the story they lived will always be a part of me,” she said, according to a copy of her remarks. “and no one—not even the president of the united states—will ever take that part of me away.” “the joke, i guess, is supposed to be on me,” she continued. “i get why some people think there’s hay to be made here. you won’t find my family members on any rolls, and i’m not enrolled in a tribe. and i want to make something clear. i respect that distinction. i understand that tribal membership is determined by tribes—and only by tribes.” trump wasn't the only one to poke fun at warren's self identification. "the daily show" host trevor noah had some fun at her expense during one of his december tapings. warren told her audience wednesday that she is going to use all the attention to try and raise awareness for their cause. “so i’m here today to make a promise: every time someone brings up my family’s story, i’m going to use it to lift up the story of your families and your communities,” she pledged. you can read her whole speech here.   share this on facebook   tweet tags: culture elizabeth warren native americans president trump here's how pence responded to behar's suggestion his christian views make him mentally ill leah barkoukis | conservative actor pushes back on demands for gun control in wake of florida shooting leah barkoukis | reince priebus spills the beans on what it was really like working in trump administration leah barkoukis | oh my: did the view’s behar suggest vp pence’s christian faith makes him mentally ill? matt vespa | what left-wing educators don't teach during 'black history month' larry elder | show comments   progressives must stop using terror to try and intimidate conservatives townhall hmm: fbi warned about parkland school shooter? hotair your thoughts and prayers matter. offer them, mean it, let no one deter you. redstate townhall.com is the leading source for conservative news and political commentary and analysis. copyright © townhall.com. all rights reserved. terms under which this service is provided to you



--------------------------------------



