People Sick Of 'Thoughts And Prayers' Demand Action After Florida School Shooting



political leaders offered thoughts and prayers after the deadly school shooting in parkland, florida on wednesday. that included president donald trump, who tweeted his “prayers and condolences” to victims and their families.  but on twitter, people wanted more than thoughts, prayers and condolences.  they also sought action and they called out those who sent thoughts and prayers without taking the steps needed to reduce gun violence.  here is some of that reaction, which caused the phrase “thoughts and prayers” to trend on twitter late wednesday:  i don’t want your condolences you fucking price of shit, my friends and teachers were shot. multiple of my fellow classmates are dead. do something instead of sending prayers. prayers won’t fix this. but gun control will prevent it from happening again. https://t.co/uzpgcpopux— sarah (@chaddiedabaddie) february 14, 2018 fuck gop& their thoughts & prayers - those words are an insult & degradation to the dead- & a debasement & insult to both thought and prayer - what that really means is keep the money coming - https://t.co/uxxu6bvzsp— john cusack (@johncusack) february 14, 2018 when is enough, enough!?! how much bloodshed, how many more deaths!?! my heart breaks at the news from florida. i mourn the senseless loss of life. this must not be normal, such carnage must not be routine. thoughts and prayers are not enough. our nation must act.— cory booker (@corybooker) february 14, 2018 i too am sending out thoughts and prayers: thoughts that congress is a bunch of cowards, and prayers that we'll finally throw the bums out of office and elect representatives with the guts to enact the sane gun laws most citizens in our country are begging to see put in place.— neil steinberg (@neilsteinberg) february 15, 2018 we could save a lot of money on that wall by just putting up some thoughts and prayers instead.— john iadarola (@johniadarola) february 14, 2018 broward school shooting--there will be prayers from blabbermouth don, pence the grinch, and their rightwing cohorts. there will be no call for any sort of sane gun regs.— stephen king (@stephenking) february 14, 2018 we owe it to our children and our teachers to keep them safe while at school. prayers won't do this: action will. congress, please do your job and protect americans from senseless gun violence— kim kardashian west (@kimkardashian) february 15, 2018 another school shooting!? 18 already this year??? jesus christ. utterly horrific and tragic. enough with "thoughts and prayers," how about "changes and action?" or maybe even just, "ok this actually is the time to talk about this."— rosh jamsay (@joshramsay) february 15, 2018 on days like this, "thoughts and prayers" with no further action, may as well be bullets in the next mass shooting.#guncontrolnow #nra#parkland #gop— john pavlovitz (@johnpavlovitz) february 14, 2018 thoughts and prayers obviously ain’t doin’ shit to stop nothin’.— j.d. evermore (@jd_evermore) february 14, 2018 my thoughts and prayers have led me to believe it’s time for a change in policy.— james gunn (@jamesgunn) february 15, 2018 it’s time for law and order republicans - or democrats or independents - to step to the plate and lay down some rules on guns. responsible gun owners yes. nut jobs no. and let’s cut this “thoughts and prayers” nonsense. we’ll do that in church, but politicians must do their jobs. https://t.co/ljbfs0swmf— richard w. painter (@rwpusa) february 15, 2018 i will take back everything bad i’ve ever said about trump if he does something about the gun issue. but hey thoughts and prayers seem to be crushing it soooo.— nathan graham (@thenathangraham) february 14, 2018 thoughts and prayers are what you send when there is literally nothing you can do. when there is, in fact, everything you can do, sending thoughts and prayers is an act of cruelty.— maya rupert (@mayarupert) february 15, 2018 when will the @gop stop being owned by the @nra and finally do anything about #guncontrol? never. their thoughts and prayers mean nothing. we must replace them all.— beau willimon (@beauwillimon) february 14, 2018 would you accept "thoughts and prayers" as the only response by public servants if they had food and your family was starving? would you accept empty talk about mental health - from people who had no intention to act - if someone set your house on fire? of course you wouldn't.— rep. don beyer (@repdonbeyer) february 15, 2018 related... beloved football coach, students among dead in florida school shooting laura ingraham hosts segment on 'safe' ar-15 hours after florida school shooting shep smith gives fox news viewers a reality check after florida school shooting download



--------------------------------------



