Jonathan T. Gilliam: Adam Schiff 'the Epitome of Dirty Politicians'



house intelligence committee vice chairman adam schiff, d-calif., is attempting to smear president donald trump with the democratic response to the republican memo alleging surveillance abuses by the fbi and justice department in the russia probe, former fbi agent and navy seal jonathan t. gilliam says. "shame on adam schiff – you know, he is just the epitome of dirty politician," gilliam told newsmax tv host miranda khan on wednesday's "america talks live." "i think he understands, but he doesn't have any care about the possible release of sensitive information that could affect how our intelligence agencies work." important: newsmax tv is available on directv ch. 349, u-verse 1220, dish 216, and fios 615. if your cable operator does not have newsmax tv just call and ask them to put us on – call toll-free 1-844-500-6397 and we will connect you right away to your cable operator! for more places to find newsmax tv – click here now trump returned the democratic response to the intelligence committee on friday, citing concerns about classified information contained in the 10-page document and asking for changes. but on tuesday, schiff said democrats will not make any revisions. "the white house has a different interest; their interest is in redacting anything that doesn't reflect well in the white house," schiff said. but gilliam does not agree. "i don't think from what i've seen of this president he is out block the democrats opinion," gilliam told khan. "it sounds like to me like he is concerned about sources and methods being put out there. "[schiff is] more concerned with playing this game and . . . the way they wrote it, the way it all came about, was just simply to make the president look bad. it had nothing to do with revealing any other information that could possibly shed light on anything." related stories: ex-navy seal jonathan gilliam praises kelly's comments gilliam: trump's quick firing of scaramucci was 'perfect' © 2018 newsmax. all rights reserved. click here to comment on this article



--------------------------------------



