Schiff: House Panel Probe Reveals More 'Evidence' of Trump-Russia Collusion, Obstruction



rep. adam schiff, d-calif., said the house intelligence committee's investigation of the trump campaign and russia has uncovered "evidence" of collusion and obstruction. schiff characterized it as "non-public information" and did not offer any specifics. "there is certainly an abundance of non-public information that we've gathered in the investigation and i think that some of that non-public evidence is evidence on the issue of collusion," he said. "some of that non-public evidence is evidence on the issue of obstruction. " .@repadamschiff on #russia investigation: "yes, there is non-public information that i think is relevant on these issues. that if i were giving you a complete picture i would include." watch full @csmonitor breakfast here: https://t.co/gorse4pjnb pic.twitter.com/jz1wo07jbx — cspan (@cspan) february 14, 2018 his comments came at a media breakfast by the christian science monitor. "yes, there is non-public information that i think is relevant on these issues," he said. schiff added he hopes that at the conclusion of the investigation the panel will be able to provide a "common set of facts" even though people might have different opinions. "i would hope we will be able to put out a common set of findings even if on certain issues there isn't agreement among the parties about what conclusions to draw from them," he said. schiff noted the panel's investigation has not been able to fully delve into certain areas —particularly money laundering. "we've not been able to adequately follow the money," he conceded. the washington examiner noted schiff has been at odds with republicans to release the democratic response to a memo authored by committee chairman devin nunes, r-calif., alleging surveillance abuses against the trump campaign. he said he expected to work out a deal soon for its release, according to the website. related stories: adam schiff: dems won't revise fisa memo response schiff: trump blocking dem memo, doesn't want public to see facts   © 2018 newsmax. all rights reserved. click here to comment on this article



--------------------------------------



