Intel Agencies: Chinese-Made Phones Are US Security Risk



after top officials from the cia, nsa, fbi, and defense intelligence agency testified chinese smartphone makers posed a security threat to u.s. customers, things are looking bleak for the market for huawei and zte phones in america, tech crunch reported. but it is nothing new, the tech-savvy news site reported. the companies' troubles go back to 2012, when a house intelligence committee cited both as a potential security risks over close ties to the chinese government. the following year, they were barred from selling product to the u.s. government, tech crunch noted. fbi director chris wray brought up those same concerns at a tuesday hearing before the senate intelligence committee, tech crunch reported, saying: "we're deeply concerned about the risks of allowing any company or entity that is beholden to foreign governments that don't share our values to gain positions of power inside our telecommunications networks." huawei has since issued a response, accusing the government of "inhibiting [its] business in the u.s. market" and adding, "huawei is trusted by governments and customers in 170 countries worldwide and poses no greater cybersecurity risk than any ict vendor, sharing as we do common global supply chains and production capabilities," tech crunch reported. huawei ceo richard yu voiced the same sentiment last month in his keynote speech at the international consumer electronics show, tech crunch reported. "we've won the trust of the chinese carriers," yu said, tech crunch reported. "we've also won spots on all of the european carriers." those remarks followed the sudden collapse of a deal with at&t, "seemingly at the behest of the same lawmakers warning against purchasing the company's hardware," tech crunch's brian heater wrote. "it was a big blow for the company, given that a majority of u.s. phone purchases still go through carriers." related stories: verizon drops huawei mate smartphones national 5g mobile network seen as option by trump security team © 2018 newsmax. all rights reserved. click here to comment on this article



--------------------------------------



