Bill O'Reilly Cautions Firing Gen. Kelly



bill o'reilly told newsmax tv on wednesday that plans by the house oversight committee to probe the white house's handling of the security clearance for former staff secretary rob porter was "politics for the republican party." "they want to send a message to women that they are concerned about any kind of abuse of any american woman," o'reilly told newsmax tv's john bachman in an interview on "newsmax now." "this is more politics than any kind of thing that is going to lead to a sanction against the white house." important: newsmax tv is available on directv ch. 349, u-verse 1220, dish 216, and fios 615. if your cable operator does not have newsmax tv just call and ask them to put us on – call toll-free 1-844-500-6397 and we will connect you right away to your cable operator! for more places to find newsmax tv – click here now he said he agreed with vice president mike pence that the administration "should have handled" the porter situation better and cautioned against calling for the resignation of chief of staff john kelly. "as far as what john kelly knew and when he knew it, i have no idea," o'reilly told bachman. "if there is an active cover-up or some kind of thing that was outrageous — and that can be shown beyond a reasonable doubt — then you have to talk about john kelly's tenure. "but at this point," he continued, "it's being used as a tool to diminish the trump administration by the national media. "they know if they get kelly out of there as chief of staff, then it hurts the trump operation. "the national media, they don't know what happened," o'reilly said. "i don't know what happened, as far as what the fbi did or who got the word. "nobody knows. "so, this is another cudgel in an unending stream of accusations, which are never going to stop. "right now," he told bachman, "this is being used as another vehicle of hate." related stories: bill o'reilly: 'very dangerous' for trump to talk to mueller bill o'reilly on sotu: 'trump being trump' © 2018 newsmax. all rights reserved. click here to comment on this article



--------------------------------------



