Piers Morgan Trashes 'Poisonous Little Viper' Omarosa



piers morgan held nothing back tuesday in describing his disdain for former white house aide omarosa manigault-newman. more than being “relentlessly loathsome," however, morgan also claimed she propositioned him to have sex with her during “the celebrity apprentice.”  “i’ve met a lot of vile human beings in my life, from dictators and terrorists to sex abusers and wicked conmen,” he wrote in a column tuesday. “but i’ve never met anyone quite so relentlessly loathsome as omarosa; a vicious, duplicitous, lying, conniving, backstabbing piece of work.” morgan went on to describe how manigault-newman suggested the two have a “showmance” so they “can make lots of money out of it”  when morgan turned her down, she accused him of being gay and was even threatening to physically attack him.  omarosa is a reprehensible human being, prepared to offer sex to win a reality tv show and use the most vile homophobic slurs against rival contestants. she did all this purely so it would bring her more airtime, and more attention. […] when i grew angry at the tidal wave of verbal filth like this, using my then young sons as a weapon, she threatened me with physical violence: ‘‘touch me, you’re going to get punched in the face.’ morgan went on to argue that while he doesn’t believe president trump is mentally unstable” as some have suggested, his decision to hire omarosa “severely tested [his] faith.”  he warned to be prepared “for the ‘insider’ book, the docu series and the lifetime movie” because she was “watching, listening, plotting and almost certainly recording” during her time in the west wing.  recalling his experience with omarosa on fox news’s “tucker carlson tonight” tuesday, carlson laughed in astonishment at morgan’s account of her proposition.  “so this was your #metoo moment,” the host joked. “i’m a victim here!” morgan responded. “i’m a victim of omarosa, tucker!” .@piersmorgan: "i don't know why #donaldtrump would have ever let [@omarosa] in there. she's already behaving exactly how i could have predicted she would behave...taking them all down, as, of course, she was going to." #tucker https://t.co/iomvt3v9ka pic.twitter.com/c2grot4o1r— fox news (@foxnews) february 14, 2018   share this on facebook   tweet tags: piers morgan here's how pence responded to behar's suggestion his christian views make him mentally ill leah barkoukis | conservative actor pushes back on demands for gun control in wake of florida shooting leah barkoukis | reince priebus spills the beans on what it was really like working in trump administration leah barkoukis | oh my: did the view’s behar suggest vp pence’s christian faith makes him mentally ill? matt vespa | what left-wing educators don't teach during 'black history month' larry elder | show comments   progressives must stop using terror to try and intimidate conservatives townhall hmm: fbi warned about parkland school shooter? hotair your thoughts and prayers matter. offer them, mean it, let no one deter you. redstate townhall.com is the leading source for conservative news and political commentary and analysis. copyright © townhall.com. all rights reserved. terms under which this service is provided to you



--------------------------------------



