Breaking: One Injured in Shooting Outside NSA



there was a shooting outside the national security agency wednesday morning. the suspect, who was stopped in a black suv at the agency’s barrier, is reportedly being held, the associated press reports. breaking: suspect held, black suv stopped at barrier after shooting outside national security agency.— the associated press (@ap) february 14, 2018 police say authorities are responding to a shooting outside the national security agency campus at fort meade, where police have surrounded a handcuffed man after a black suv ran into a barrier. https://t.co/ctlaeuxroh— the associated press (@ap) february 14, 2018 one person has been injured in the shooting.  a fort meade spokeswoman confirmed that one person was injured in the shooting outside the base and was taken to hospital. the white house said president trump was briefed on the situation. https://t.co/wvpli9qspe— the associated press (@ap) february 14, 2018 "nsa police and local law enforcement are addressing an incident that took place this morning at one of nsa’s secure vehicle entry gates. the situation is under control and there are no ongoing security or safety concerns," nsa spokesperson chris augustine said in a statement. this post will be updated.   share this on facebook   tweet tags: nsa here's how pence responded to behar's suggestion his christian views make him mentally ill leah barkoukis | conservative actor pushes back on demands for gun control in wake of florida shooting leah barkoukis | reince priebus spills the beans on what it was really like working in trump administration leah barkoukis | oh my: did the view’s behar suggest vp pence’s christian faith makes him mentally ill? matt vespa | what left-wing educators don't teach during 'black history month' larry elder | show comments   progressives must stop using terror to try and intimidate conservatives townhall hmm: fbi warned about parkland school shooter? hotair 18 school shootings in 2018? yeah - not quite (the truth anti-gun advocates aren't telling you) redstate townhall.com is the leading source for conservative news and political commentary and analysis. copyright © townhall.com. all rights reserved. terms under which this service is provided to you



--------------------------------------



