Paul Ryan Says Porter Incident Shows White House Needs to 'Fix Their Vetting System'



house speaker paul ryan (r-wi) responded to questions wednesday about the manner in which the white house handled domestic abuse allegations against former staff secretary rob porter. ryan was asked by nbc’s kasie hunt if the white house “should publicly condemn domestic violence.” hunt also noted that trump wished porter well upon his departure. “clearly we should all be condemning domestic violence,” ryan replied. “and if a person who commits domestic violence gets in the government, then there is a breakdown in the vetting system and that breakdown needs to be addressed,” he added. ryan said that the white house “clearly [has] work to do to fix their vetting system.” “i don’t know exactly how they will do that. i’ll leave that to them,” ryan said, “but chairman gowdy is doing his proper job and oversight.” house oversight committee chair trey gowdy (r-sc) announced wednesday that the committee is investigating the white house’s handling of the incident. "we are directing inquiries to people that we think have access to information we don't have,” gowdy told cnn. “you can call it official.you can call it unofficial. those words don't mean anything to me. what means something to me is i'm going to direct questions to the fbi that i expect them to answer." "how do you have any job if you have credible allegations of domestic abuse?" gowdy asked, saying he is "biased toward the victim." porter resigned last wednesday after the daily mail featured allegations and photos from porter's two ex-wives detailing domestic abuse.   share this on facebook   tweet tags: paul ryan white house abuse allegations rob porter here's how pence responded to behar's suggestion his christian views make him mentally ill leah barkoukis | conservative actor pushes back on demands for gun control in wake of florida shooting leah barkoukis | reince priebus spills the beans on what it was really like working in trump administration leah barkoukis | oh my: did the view’s behar suggest vp pence’s christian faith makes him mentally ill? matt vespa | what left-wing educators don't teach during 'black history month' larry elder | show comments   progressives must stop using terror to try and intimidate conservatives townhall hmm: fbi warned about parkland school shooter? hotair 18 school shootings in 2018? yeah - not quite (the truth anti-gun advocates aren't telling you) redstate townhall.com is the leading source for conservative news and political commentary and analysis. copyright © townhall.com. all rights reserved. terms under which this service is provided to you



--------------------------------------



