Dem Rep Blames Trump for Obama’s Inaction on Russian Meddling



you would think that president obama would be to blame for president obama's inaction on russian meddling. but you'd be wrong. it's donald trump's fault, rep. eric swalwell (d-ca), told msnbc's ari melber monday. "i'll say to you, ari, i think one of the lessons learned is that we should have been straighter with the american people as soon as this interference campaign happened, but because candidate trump had put it out there that the election was going to be rigged, that got in the head of obama administration officials and they felt like if they said the russians were interfering, that that would prove donald trump's theory right. there's a lot to be learned here," swalwell said. trump may have used the word "rigged" on the campaign trail, but that doesn't excuse the fact that obama had the intel that the russians were interfering in our elections. he even told russian president vladimir putin to "cut it out." yet, obama explained that he didn't do much more than that for fear of retaliation in the form of more hacking. "thumping their chests" against the russians would have had the opposite intended effect, he insisted. for every eric swalwell blaming the russian problem on trump, there are plenty of other democrats who had no problem calling out the obama administration for doing little to nothing about the meddling. "given the seriousness of this, i think the administration needed to call out russia earlier, needed to act to deter and punish russia earlier, and i think that was a very serious mistake," rep. adam schiff (d-ca) said. of course, today schiff is accusing the trump administration of trying to undermine the intelligence community and put the "government on trial" because they have something to hide. still, others like this senior obama administrationofficial admitted that they "choked" when they learned of russian meddling. sen. mark warner (d-va) agreed. trump has dismissed the special counsel russia investigation as a "witch hunt." when the republicans on the house intelligence committee released their memo on surveillance abuses at the fbi, trump said he had been "vindicated" from collusion claims. he declined to declassify the democratic response because it would threaten national security, the white house said last week. if the democrats add redactions, trump will reconsider.   share this on facebook   tweet tags: russia russia donald trump donald trump president obama president obama eric swalwell eric swalwell here's how pence responded to behar's suggestion his christian views make him mentally ill leah barkoukis | conservative actor pushes back on demands for gun control in wake of florida shooting leah barkoukis | reince priebus spills the beans on what it was really like working in trump administration leah barkoukis | oh my: did the view’s behar suggest vp pence’s christian faith makes him mentally ill? matt vespa | what left-wing educators don't teach during 'black history month' larry elder | show comments   progressives must stop using terror to try and intimidate conservatives townhall hmm: fbi warned about parkland school shooter? hotair your thoughts and prayers matter. offer them, mean it, let no one deter you. redstate townhall.com is the leading source for conservative news and political commentary and analysis. copyright © townhall.com. all rights reserved. terms under which this service is provided to you



--------------------------------------



