Teacher Who Mocked Military Is Condemned By Colleagues But Refuses to Resign as Councilman



gregory salcido, a teacher at el rancho high school in pico rivera, california who was busted for an anti-military rant captured by a student, doesn't seem to have too many regrets. first, a reminder of what he thinks about our men and women in uniform. “your freakin' stupid uncle louie or whatever," salcido said to a student who was wearing a u.s. marine corps sweatshirt. "they're dumb sh*ts. they're not high-level bankers. they're not academic people. they're not intellectual people. they are the freakin’ lowest of our low. not morally, i'm not saying they make bad moral judgements.” the incendiary comments were all captured in a video recording. after they were made public, salcido was placed on leave from the school.  he has not apologized for his comments, only to those who may have been offended by them. on tuesday, he reiterated that young people who decided to suit up are less educated than their peers. he would rather encourage graduates to go to college. remember the teacher who called military members ‘lowest of the low’…now he’s defending his comments. your thoughts? pic.twitter.com/p8xhfxuku0— fox & friends (@foxandfriends) february 14, 2018 “i don’t think it’s at all a revelation that those who aren’t stellar students usually find the military a better option,” he said. “that’s as plain as it’s tuesday night.” “nothing” of what he said, however, had anything to do with their “moral character.” despite pressure from his colleagues, who voted to condemn salcido and ask for his resignation, he is refusing to budge from his post as a councilman. they can't force him from his post, but mayor gustavo camacho is trying to censure him to make sure he cannot participate in city committees and appointments. salcido's remarks made their way to the white house, where chief of staff john kelly said he could "go to hell."   share this on facebook   tweet tags: california military here's how pence responded to behar's suggestion his christian views make him mentally ill leah barkoukis | conservative actor pushes back on demands for gun control in wake of florida shooting leah barkoukis | reince priebus spills the beans on what it was really like working in trump administration leah barkoukis | oh my: did the view’s behar suggest vp pence’s christian faith makes him mentally ill? matt vespa | what left-wing educators don't teach during 'black history month' larry elder | show comments   progressives must stop using terror to try and intimidate conservatives townhall hmm: fbi warned about parkland school shooter? hotair 18 school shootings in 2018? yeah - not quite (the truth anti-gun advocates aren't telling you) redstate townhall.com is the leading source for conservative news and political commentary and analysis. copyright © townhall.com. all rights reserved. terms under which this service is provided to you



--------------------------------------



