BREAKING: ‘Mass Casualty’ Shooting At Florida High School



update: fox and nbc news is reporting that police at the scene are telling students and teachers to stay put and barricade the doors. more: broward sheriff's office says deputies have responded to reports of shooting at the school in south florida. coral springs police to students and teachers in the school: "remain barricaded inside until police reach you."— nbc news (@nbcnews) february 14, 2018 update ii: at least 20 people injured. more: @wsvn reporting at least 20 injured after reports of a shooting at school in parkland, florida— ryan schulteis (@ryanschulteis) february 14, 2018 update iii: shooter still at large. coast guard deploying helicopters. between 20-50 people injured. breaking: sheriff: florida high school shooter still at large.— the associated press (@ap) february 14, 2018 #breaking: florida mass shooting: --between 20-50 people injured per margate fire dept. --coast guard sending helicopters --shooter still at large#stonemanshooting https://t.co/ktq9yafiay pic.twitter.com/rvxrxhuwmb— tim williams (@realtimwilliams) february 14, 2018 update iv: we have reports of fatalities from abc, witness said they saw dead bodies while evacuating. individual tells @gstephanopoulos "3 people dead outside my door" #stonemanshooting— abc action news (@abcactionnews) february 14, 2018 #breakingnews witness to #schoolshooting in florida tells @abc there were more shots than he could count and that there were dead bodies outside classroom when he evacuated. abc reports @browardsheriff says shooter still at large— jason wheeler (@jasonwheelertv) february 14, 2018 update v: fbi will be on the scene. it's now viewed as a "mass casulty event." the #fbi is responding to the scene of the high school. #cbs #miami #stonemanshooting— brian dorman (@bdormantv) february 14, 2018 update vi: president trump has tweeted his condolences and has spoken with florida gov. rick scott. the white house press briefing has been canceled. my prayers and condolences to the families of the victims of the terrible florida shooting. no child, teacher or anyone else should ever feel unsafe in an american school.— donald j. trump (@realdonaldtrump) february 14, 2018 update vii: this is unconfirmed, but sen. bill nelson (d-fl) said, “many people have been killed.” broward sheriff's department says the shooter has also been arrested. the suspect is a former student, accoding to the broward county sheriff's department. one person is confirmed to have been killed. a person of interest is in custody per local police departments here in #parklandshooting - florida senator bill nelson says “many people have been killed.”— james laporta (@jimlaporta) february 14, 2018 report: suspect arrested after shooting at high school in florida: https://t.co/xsu4fwusih pic.twitter.com/e4bjjpe8ay— cbsdfw (@cbsdfw) february 14, 2018 shooter is now in custody. scene is still active. #stonemanshooting— broward sheriff (@browardsheriff) february 14, 2018 sheriff israel, "the shooter was not a current student."— broward sheriff (@browardsheriff) february 14, 2018 "it's catastrophic. there really are no words." - sheriff israel— broward sheriff (@browardsheriff) february 14, 2018 update viii: here’s a video from a mobile phone showing students taking cover inside a classroom as shots were fired. (warning: graphic video): new: (warning-graphic scene) cell phone video that was taken inside a classroom shows students hiding for cover while gunshots are heard in the background pic.twitter.com/fgmqrw18xh— cbs this morning (@cbsthismorning) february 14, 2018 update ix: there are multiple reports that seven people have been killed in today’s shooting, another fourteen have been injured.  #breaking : 7 dead, more than a dozen people injured in high school shooting in parkland. #stonemanshooting https://t.co/8mimrffzt6— erin macpherson (@erincbs12) february 14, 2018 breaking: 7 dead, 14 injured in shooting at high school in florida. #stonemanshooting #prayersforparklandhttps://t.co/2dy3ig1m9f pic.twitter.com/v9seryvec0— wpec cbs12 news (@cbs12) february 14, 2018 update x: suspect identified as nikolas de jesus cruz (via miami herald): correction: suspect’s name is spelled nikolas cruz #stonemanshooting— broward sheriff (@browardsheriff) february 15, 2018 breaking: us official: florida school shooter identified as nicolas cruz.— the associated press (@ap) february 14, 2018 details remain cloudy amid a flurry of police activity at marjory stoneman douglas high school in parkland off the sawgrass expressway. students, who heard a fire alarm go off just before dismissal, followed by guns shots, fled off campus and hid under desks as police sped to the scene. parents, blocked from getting onto campus, stood by helpless. the broward sheriff’s office is reporting “at least 14 victims” and is still working to clear all the buildings at the massive school, home to about 3,200 students. the shooter, a former student identified by law enforcement sources as nicolas de jesus cruz, managed to make it off campus before he was cornered and taken into custody in a townhouse at pelican pointe at wyndham lakes in coral springs. robert runcie, superintendent of broward schools, is reporting “numerous fatalities” in the terrifying attack, the latest in america’s troubled history with guns. many victims have been transported to broward health north, as has cruz. four others have been taken to broward medical center. broward county sheriff’s department has instructed parents looking for their children to head to the local marriott in coral springs. "any parent who is looking for their child, please go to the marriot at 11775 heron bay blvd. in coral springs." - sheriff israel #stonemanshooting— broward sheriff (@browardsheriff) february 14, 2018 update xi: death toll increased to 17 people. "i'm saddened to say that 17 people lost their lives."- sheriff scott israel #stonemanshooting— broward sheriff (@browardsheriff) february 14, 2018 update xii: cruz is said to have used an ar-15 rifle. sen. nelson said cruz also had smoke grenades (via nbc news): officials believe the gunman had one ar-15-style semiautomatic rifle and multiple magazines, but it was unclear whether he had any other weapons. the gunfire began outside the school and continued inside, where 12 of the victims were killed, israel said. authorities initially spelled cruz's first name as "nikolaus" but later corrected the spelling. he was taken into custody off campus about an hour after he "committed this horrific, detestable act," said israel, who said investigators were reviewing social media postings that he described as "very disturbing." federal and local authorities told nbc news that there was no indication that the gunman had an accomplice or accomplices. more: "the suspect was heavily armed," @jeffpeguescbs reports on parkland, florida, high school shooting. "the sheriff just saying that he had countless magazines, and was armed with an ar-15-style rifle. that is what he used in that attack." https://t.co/1y5nbgzmde pic.twitter.com/awkwrh9gbl— cbs news (@cbsnews) february 14, 2018 sen. nelson tells @hardballchris: florida school shooting suspect wore a gas mask and had smoke grenades. "he set off the fire alarm so the kids would come out into the hallways." latest: https://t.co/llzz7vjwcd pic.twitter.com/amrqotagfw— nbc news (@nbcnews) february 15, 2018 *** we have reports of an active shooting incident at marjory stoneman douglas high school in parkland, florida. this is a breaking news story. we’ll update accordingly.  breaking: authorities say they're responding to a shooting at a florida high school; number of wounded unknown.— the associated press (@ap) february 14, 2018 #breakimg: multiple victims being treated for injuries outside marjory stoneman douglas high school in parkland #florida after shooting - @wsvn pic.twitter.com/gxdkzvuohx— amichai stein (@amichaistein1) february 14, 2018 just in: authorities respond to report of school shooting in parkland, florida. coral springs police urge public to avoid the area around douglas high school https://t.co/kydjxhspbb pic.twitter.com/op41cnnrfk— cbs news (@cbsnews) february 14, 2018   share this on facebook   tweet tags: florida school shooting here's how pence responded to behar's suggestion his christian views make him mentally ill leah barkoukis | conservative actor pushes back on demands for gun control in wake of florida shooting leah barkoukis | reince priebus spills the beans on what it was really like working in trump administration leah barkoukis | oh my: did the view’s behar suggest vp pence’s christian faith makes him mentally ill? matt vespa | what left-wing educators don't teach during 'black history month' larry elder | show comments   progressives must stop using terror to try and intimidate conservatives townhall hmm: fbi warned about parkland school shooter? hotair your thoughts and prayers matter. offer them, mean it, let no one deter you. redstate townhall.com is the leading source for conservative news and political commentary and analysis. copyright © townhall.com. all rights reserved. terms under which this service is provided to you



--------------------------------------



