Mysterious White Powder Also Sent to Obama



a day after vanessa trump opened her mail to find a mysterious white substance, authorities are reporting that a white powder has also been sent to former president obama's washington, d.c. office. fox 5 tv has the details. the incident was reported tuesday around 12:30 p.m. at 1250 24th street in northwest d.c. in the west end neighborhood. the former president has leased office space in the building since leaving office in january 2017. the building is owned by the non-profit world wildlife fund, which has its headquarters in the space. d.c. fire and ems battalion chief edward smith tells fox 5 a letter was mailed to the world wildlife fund office from hong kong, and it reportedly contained baby powder. it had no return address. it is still unclear whether obama was in the office when the questionable mail arrived. vanessa trump, who is married to president trump's son donald trump, jr., was one of three people sent to the hospital monday for decontamination after being exposed to a white substance at her manhattan apartment. after an investigation, the substance was reported to be cornstarch.   share this on facebook   tweet tags: president obama here's how pence responded to behar's suggestion his christian views make him mentally ill leah barkoukis | conservative actor pushes back on demands for gun control in wake of florida shooting leah barkoukis | reince priebus spills the beans on what it was really like working in trump administration leah barkoukis | oh my: did the view’s behar suggest vp pence’s christian faith makes him mentally ill? matt vespa | what left-wing educators don't teach during 'black history month' larry elder | show comments   progressives must stop using terror to try and intimidate conservatives townhall hmm: fbi warned about parkland school shooter? hotair 18 school shootings in 2018? yeah - not quite (the truth anti-gun advocates aren't telling you) redstate townhall.com is the leading source for conservative news and political commentary and analysis. copyright © townhall.com. all rights reserved. terms under which this service is provided to you



--------------------------------------



