Conservatives Slam 'Obamacare Bailouts' in Trump Budget



president trump's new budget is not a win for conservatives, groups like americans for prosperity are regretting. in particular, they are concerned by the part where the budget will reinstate $800 million in funding for obamacare’s risk corridor program. afp president tim phillips offered the following rebuke. “it is disappointing to see this administration proposing to restart the misguided practice of using taxpayer dollars to subsidize big insurers," phillips said in a statement. "president trump has provided regulatory relief that allows those hurt by skyrocketing obamacare premiums onto short-term policies or association health plans, eliminating the need for a new round of insurance company giveaways.  “including csrs and risk corridors in the white house budget would only prop up the failing health care law. obamacare was manipulated to put the profits of private health insurance companies ahead of tax-paying americans, and it’s good that we have put an end to these bailout programs.” the gop failed to repeal and replace obamacare last year, despite president trump's endorsement of the legislation. conservatives initially opposed the effort because it would do little to nothing to lower health care costs, nor repeal enough of the affordable care act. yet, in the end it was three moderate republicans who derailed the bill. there's plenty of pushback in congress against the trump budget too. republican lawmakers like sen. marco rubio (r-fl) demanded to know why the new budget bails out private insurers to protect them from obamacare, when that money could go to pressing needs like these? some programs in #florida are subject to sequester cuts: (2/3) fema disaster relief fund nasa nih cancer research grants firefighter grants nih alzheimer’s research grants vets job-training program border patrol coast guard national park service special education grants— senator rubio press (@senrubiopress) february 13, 2018 meanwhile, house freedom caucus members like rep. mark meadows (r-nc) is incensed that the budget, which adds $300 billion in new spending, will do nothing to rein in the deficit. “the swamp won and the american taxpayer lost,” he said.   share this on facebook   tweet tags: budget conservatives obamacare obamacare president trump president trump here's how pence responded to behar's suggestion his christian views make him mentally ill leah barkoukis | conservative actor pushes back on demands for gun control in wake of florida shooting leah barkoukis | reince priebus spills the beans on what it was really like working in trump administration leah barkoukis | oh my: did the view’s behar suggest vp pence’s christian faith makes him mentally ill? matt vespa | what left-wing educators don't teach during 'black history month' larry elder | show comments   progressives must stop using terror to try and intimidate conservatives townhall hmm: fbi warned about parkland school shooter? hotair 18 school shootings in 2018? yeah - not quite (the truth anti-gun advocates aren't telling you) redstate townhall.com is the leading source for conservative news and political commentary and analysis. copyright © townhall.com. all rights reserved. terms under which this service is provided to you



--------------------------------------



