A Year of ‘Believe Me’s’



gage skidmore/flickr donate subscribe share tweet print email donald trump is a serial liar and master of puffery. but don’t take it from the liberal media and fake news outlets. as trump marks his first year in office, here is a look back at the predictions that “the donald” himself personally affirmed would happen under his leadership. to paraphrase fox news, the president’s favorite channel, you decide whether to believe him. believe me. with the exception of the late, great abraham lincoln, i can be more presidential than any president that’s ever held this office. because i’m going to be working for you, i’m not going to have time to go play golf. believe me. believe me folks. and believe me, the day obama goes off, and he leaves, and goes out to the golf course for the rest of his life to play golf, when [the federal reserve] raises interest rates, you’re going to see some very bad things happen. i am the least racist person that you’ve ever met. believe me. not all of those people were neo-nazis, believe me. not all of those people were white supremacists. in a trump administration, our christian heritage will be cherished, protected, defended, like you’ve never seen before. believe me. torture works, ok, folks? you know, i have these guys [saying] “torture doesn’t work!” believe me, it works. as your president, i will do everything in my power to protect our lgbtq citizens from the violence and oppression of a hateful foreign ideology. believe me. and you know what else? i have great respect for women, believe me. believe me, she [a woman who accused trump of sexual assault] would not be my first choice. that i can tell you. we lose with everything. we’re not going to lose. we’re going to start winning again, and we are going to win big league. believe me. believe me, i’ll change things. and again, we’re going to be so respected. nato, believe me, is very happy with donald trump. if we have a good relationship with russia, believe me, that’s a good thing, not a bad thing. believe me, there’s no collusion. russia is fine, but whether it’s russia or anybody else, my total priority, believe me, is the united states of america. we got a lot of killers. what—you think our country is so innocent? … a lot of killers around, believe me. we will not answer to donors or lobbyists or special interests, but we will serve the citizens of the united states of america, believe me. reducing taxes will cause new companies and new jobs to come roaring back into our country. believe me. this [gop tax bill] is going to cost me a fortune—believe me. believe me, this is not good for me. the world is in trouble, but we’re going to straighten it out. ok? that’s what i do. i fix things. we’re going to straighten it out. believe me. [immigration] applicants will be asked their views about honor killings, about respect for women and gays and minorities, attitudes on radical islam—which president [obama] refuses to say—and many other topics as part of this vetting procedure. and if we have the right people doing it, believe me, very, very few will slip through the cracks. my number-one priority is to dismantle the disastrous deal with iran… i’ve studied this issue in great detail, i would say actually greater by far than anybody else. believe me. i know more about isis than the generals do, believe me. that’s what politicians do: all talk, no action. believe me. our friends and enemies must know that if i draw a line in the sand, i will enforce that line in the sand—believe me. we will terminate obamacare and replace it, believe me, with something good. we’re losing a lot of money with mexico, and that is including the drug money, which is much more, okay? believe me, we get the drugs, they get the cash. i will build a great wall—and nobody builds walls better than me, believe me. i would have mexico pay for it. believe me, they will pay for it. believe me, if we have to close down our government, we are building that wall. i have a message to every last person threatening the peace on our streets and the safety of our police: when i take the oath of office, i will restore law and order to our country. believe me. we can accomplish these great things and so much more. all we need to do is start believing in ourselves and in our country again. start believing.



--------------------------------------



